Ecosystem Guidance (#300)
openid/OpenID4VC-HAIP: openid4vc-high-assurance-interoperability-profile-1_0.md

Wallet implementations using the key attestation format specified in Annex D of [@!OIDF.OID4VCI] might need to utilize a transformation (backend) service to create such attestations based on data as provided in other formats by the respective platform or secure key management module. The dependency on such a service might impact the availability of the wallet app as well as the performance of the issuance process. This could be mitigated by creating keys and obtaining the respective key attestations in advance.

## Ecosystem Implementation Considerations

> This document leaves extensible a number of different options to allow for broad compatible with ecosystems that have conflicting needs. These include:

Reviewer: Maybe this is slightly better?
```suggestion
This document leaves various choices open, to allow for broad compatibly with ecosystems that have conflicting needs. These include:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document intentionally leaves certain extensions for ecosystems to define, in order to enable broad compatibility across differing or even conflicting requirements. These include:
```
we usually use extensions to express this tho not sure this is the best word here. personally, would like to avoid using a word `choice`...

- Credential format support requirements across issuance and presentation

> - Signed Issuer Metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether to use Signed Issuer Metadata or not
```

> - Credential Offer invocation mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How to send Credential Offer
```

- Key attestation formats.

> - X509 Verifier Authentication certificate profiles.

Reviewer: Not just verifier authentication, but also token status list verification, credential verification, wallet attestation, and probably more

```suggestion
- X509 certificate profiles.
```

> - Presentation mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: what does this mean? DC API?
```suggestion
- Whether to use DC API or not
```

Author: update to be more explicit, inline with the other changes

> - Additional crypto suite and hash algorithm support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Additional crypto suite and hash algorithm support or restrictions
```

> Ecosystems MAY choose to further restrict or extend these. Below are two non-normative examples of ecosystem goals and choices that could be made to achieve them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below are two non-normative examples of ecosystem goals and choices that could be made to achieve them.
```

### Improved Baseline Interoperability 

> This is an ecosystem that prioritizes all Wallets and Issuers operating without any pre-existing relationship, across both ISO mdocs and SD-JWT VCs. To achieve this the ecosystem could define the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an ecosystem that prioritizes all Wallets and Issuers interoperating without any pre-existing relationship, across both ISO mdocs and SD-JWT VCs. To achieve this the ecosystem could define the following:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ecosystem prioritizes interoperability among all Wallets and Issuers, without requiring any pre-existing relationships, and supports both ISO mdocs and SD-JWT VCs. To achieve this, the ecosystem could define the following:
```

- Wallets MUST support both mdoc and sd-jwt-vc. Issuers MAY issue in either format.
- Wallets MUST register for the 'haip-vci://' custom scheme, where possible.
- Wallets and Issuers MUST support key attestations in the format specified in Annex D of [@!OIDF.OID4VCI].
- Wallets MUST register for the 'haip-vp://' custom scheme and DC API when they have credentials available, where possible. 

Making these choices maximizes interoperability between the parties in the ecosystem while minimizing the burden on Issuers and Verifiers. This comes at the expense of an increased burden on Wallets as well as the potential privacy and security issues in (#interop-key-attestations).

### Existing Curve Requirements

> This is an ecosystem where backwards compatibility with existing issued curves is important. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an ecosystem where backwards compatibility with curves already implemented by Issuers is important. For example:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ecosystem places importance on maintaining backward compatibility with already issued cryptographic curves. To achieve this, the ecosystem could define the following:
```

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   -05

>    * Add ecosysetm guidance section

Reviewer: Should keep the blank line here or markdown sometimes goes weird:

```suggestion

   * Add ecosysetm guidance section
```
